hello everyone welcome back to my
channel in today's video we are going to
see different types of power dissipation
in CMOS circuits so without any delay
let's get started
[Music]
the total power that is dissipated can
be broadly classified into two types
static and dynamic now let's see what is
static power static power is the power
dissipated by a transistor when it is
not switching and when the transistor is
not searching when the input at the gate
of a transistor is not transitioning
either from 0 to 1 or from 1 to zero in
that case a transistor is in a static
mode and that's why dissipate static
power the static power dissipation is
mainly in the form of leakage that's why
it is also called leakage power now we
can have various types of leakage in a
CMOS circuit let's look into them one by
one so what is a threshold leakage as
the name suggests something which
happens below threshold so let's
understand this with an example let's
take an N Mo's we know that n MOS is on
when VG's is greater than VT
and when vgs drops below the threshold
voltage that is when VG's is less than
VT and MOS is supposed to be off right
but in real transistors the current does
not abruptly cut off below threshold but
rather she drops off exponentially
therefore even when VG's is less than VT
for a small amount of time there is a
current that flows between drain to
source and that current is called sub
threshold leakage current now let's move
on to gate leakage now as the name
suggests it is the leakage that happens
through gate so basically when this gate
oxide is very thin that it allows the
current to pass through it then it leads
to leakage current gate leakage current
now let's see what is Junction leakage
we know that in a CMOS transistor there
are so many PN junctions and these PN
junctions form diodes and these diodes
are in reverse bias and we know that
there is still a small amount of current
that flows through a reverse bias diode
that small amount of current is the
major cause of Junction leakage
now this was about the static power or
leakage power now let's move on to
dynamic power now what is dynamic power
so dynamic power is dissipated when a
circuit is active now when a circuit is
active but circuit is said to be active
when the voltage on its input net is
changing due to some stimulus applied
now it is to be noted that the change in
the voltage of input net may or may not
lead to change in the logic state of
output but in both the cases whether
there is change in output net or not if
there is change in the input net voltage
then dynamic power will be dissipated
now again dynamic power can be
classified in two types which in power
and internal power let's look at
searching power first now as we saw when
the voltage at input net is changing it
may or may not lead to the change in
logic state of output but let's consider
the case that when the change in input
is also leading to the change in output
that's when the switching power comes
into the picture so switching power is
the power which is dissipated while
charging or discharging the load
capacitor at the output of the cell now
let's understand this with an example so
let's save an input is changing from 1
to 0 the PMO's will turn on and when P
Mo's will turn on it will charge this
output load to VDD when P MOS is on the
energy supplied by this power supply is
C VDD square and when the P MOS is
charging this capacitor to VDD the
energy stored in this capacitor is half
clvdd square now notice only the half of
the energy which has been taken from
this power supply is used to charge this
charge this capacitor so now the
question is very dressed half of the
energy go so rest half of the energy is
dissipated as heat in the P Mo's
transistor and now when the input
changes back to one from zero the P Mo's
turns off and
and mass turns on and the energy which
was stored in this output capacitor is
discharged to zero through n Mo's so
here is the written version of whatever
I explained I will give you seconds to
read this so now this is the switching
power equation so we know that 1/2 clvdd
square is the energy and alpha is the
switching factor so if input switches
alpha x in a cycle then alpha will be
such in factor and remember that for
switching power not only change in the
input is important but that change in
input should also lead to change in
output so if input is switching alpha
times in a cycle and if that input
transition is causing output transition
as well then we would say that switching
factor is alpha and our equation for
switching power will be half alpha clvdd
square into frequency now as we saw the
dynamic power has two components which
in power and internal power now we will
see what is internal power now as the
name suggests internal power is the
power which is dissipated internal to
the cell that is which is dissipated
within the boundary of a cell it can
again be divided in two parts short
circuit power which we will see in a bi
and the power which is needed to charge
or discharge the internal nodes of a
transistor so basically there will be
some internal capacitance in a
transistor so to charge or discharge
whatever power is needed that is also
comes that also comes with an internal
power now by definition short circuit
power is the power which is dissipated
when both P Mo's and n MOS are
simultaneously on during input
transition now to understand this
definition let's consider this scenario
let's say the input is switching from
VSS to VDD and we know that P MOS is on
when the input is between VSS to VDD
minus VT and and more
is on when the input is from VT to VDD
so between this period that is from VT
to VDD minus VT both PMO's and NMOS are
on that is during this time there is a
direct current flow from VDD to ground
this direct current flow from VDD to
ground leads to short-circuit current
and which leads to short-circuit power
so this was all from my side please let
me know your feedback in the comment
section below
and if you think video was good don't
forget to Like share and subscribe
thanks for watching
[Music]